Newsletters: add 294 (2024-03-20) (#1562)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-03-20-newsletter.md

  recommended to use it for anything but tests right now".  However, he
  is working on rewriting the proxy in Rust and may also make some or
  all of its functions available as a library for light clients or other
  software that wants to natively support the v2 Bitcoin P2P protocol.

- **Overview of BTC Lisp:** Anthony Towns [posted][towns lisp] to
  Delving Bitcoin about his experiments over the past couple years
  creating a variant of the [Lisp][] language for Bitcoin, called BTC
  Lisp.  See Newsletters [#293][news293 lisp] and [#191][news191 lisp]
  for previous discussions.  The post goes into significant detail; we
  encourage anyone interested in the idea to read it directly.  We will
  briefly quote from its _conclusion_ and _future work_ sections:

  "[BTC Lisp] can be a little expensive on-chain, but it seems like you
  can do pretty much anything [...] I don’t think implementing either a
  Lisp interpreter or the bucket of opcodes that would need to accompany
  it is too hard [but] it is pretty annoying to write Lisp code without
  a compiler translating from a higher level representation down to the

>   consensus-level opcodes, [though] that seems solvable.  [T]this could

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  consensus-level opcodes, [though] that seems solvable.  [T]his could
```

  be taken further [by] implementing a language like this and deploying
  it on signet/inquisition."

  Russell O'Connor, developer of the [Simplicity][topic simplicity]
  language that may also one day be considered as an alternative
  consensus scripting language, [replied][oconnor lisp] with some
  comparisons between Bitcoin's current Script language, Simplicity, and

>   Chia/BTC Lisp.  He concludes, "Simplicity and the [Chia Lisp Virtual
>   Machine] clvm are both low level languages that are meant to be easy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Chia/BTC Lisp.  He concludes, "Simplicity and the clvm  [Chia Lisp Virtual
  Machine] are both low level languages that are meant to be easy
```

  for machines to evaluate, which causes tradeoffs that make them hard

>   for humans to read. They are intended to be the compiled from some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for humans to read. They are intended to be compiled from some
```
This typo is within a quotation, so I'm unsure what to do here.

Author: Fixed it.  I don't like changing people's unique language, but I'm totally ok with fixing typos and making other changes that are 100% clearly following their intent, in non-adversarial situations.  If this was an adversarial case, we wouldn't make any change.

  different, human-readable, non-consensus-critical language.
  Simplicity and the clvm are different ways of expressing the same old
  things: fetching data from an environment, tupling up bits of data,
  running conditional statements, and a whole bunch of primitive
  operations of some sorts.  [...] Since we want this [split between
  efficient low-level consensus language and high-level non-consensus
  comprehensible language] regardless, the details of the low-level
  language become somewhat less important. I.e., with some effort, your

>   high level BTC lisp language could probably be translated/complied to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  high level BTC lisp language could probably be translated/compiled to
```

  Simplicity [...] Similarly, wherever the design of [Simplicity-based]
  Simphony [high-level non-consensus language] ends up, it can probably

>   be translated/complied your low level BTC lisp language, with each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be translated/complied by your low level BTC lisp language, with each
```
Again, this is within a quotation, so not sure, maybe put the "by" within square brackets?

Author: I think this is intended to be "to".  Definitely putting it in square brackets given the ambiguity.

>   be translated/complied your low level BTC lisp language, with each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  be translated/compiled to your low level BTC lisp language, with each
```
Larry suggests "by", I think it's supposed to be "to", but it could also be "from".

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Bitcoin Core 26.1rc1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance release
  of the network's predominant full node implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 27.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of the network's predominant full node implementation.

<!-- FIXME:harding to update on Tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo], and [BINANAs][binana
repo]._

*Note: the commits to Bitcoin Core mentioned below apply to its master
development branch and so those changes will likely not be released

> until about six months after the release of the upcoming version 27.*

Reviewer 2: Not sure I'm a fan of this note, or mentioning specifically Bitcoin Core and not the others. How about permanently amending the introductory paragraph like this?

"These changes are expected to be included in future releases of the respective projects."

(Although this is a bit inaccurate since BIPs, BOLTs and BINANAs don't have releases.)

Author: Previous discussion here: https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/pull/395#discussion_r420143915

We haven't included this note for a while, but I saw some confusion on Twitter about it, so I decided to re-instate it.  I don't think the note generalizes, as only Bitcoin Core has this behavior; see this quote from the previous discussion:

> AFAICT, Bitcoin Core is the only project we monitor that branches from master prior to a major release. (Indeed, I'm unable to think of any other free software project I've followed that does that.)

I'm happy to discuss further, but I suggest we include the note this week as we've included it many times before.

- [Bitcoin Core #27375][] adds support to the `-proxy` and `-onion`
  feature for using Unix domain sockets rather than local TCP ports.
  Sockets can be faster than TCP ports and offer different security
  tradeoffs.

- [Bitcoin Core #27114][] allows adding "in" and "out" to the
  `whitelist` configuration parameter to give special access to
  particular _incoming_ and _outgoing_ connections.  By default, a peer
  listed in the whitelist will only receive special access when it
  connects to the user's local node (an incoming connection).  By
  specifying "out", the user can now ensure a peer receives special
  access if the local node connects to it, such as by the user calling
  the `addnode` RPC.

- [Bitcoin Core #29306][] adds [sibling eviction][topic sibling
  eviction] for transactions descended from an unconfirmed [v3
  parent][topic v3 transaction relay].  This can provide a satisfactory
  alternative to [CPFP carve-out][topic cpfp carve out], which is

>   currently used by [LN anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs].  V3
>   transaction relay is not currently enabled for mainnet and (as noted
>   above) this PR is merged into the development branch that is not
>   expected to be released for about six months.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a fan of repeating the above note, how about just:
```suggestion
  currently used by [LN anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs].  V3
  transaction relay remains disabled on mainnet.
```

- [LND #8310][] allows the `rpcuser` and `rpcpass` (password)

>   configuration parameters to be retrieved from the Unix environment.

Reviewer 2: Pretty sure this isn't limited to Unix:
```suggestion
  configuration parameters to be retrieved from environment variables.
```

  This can allow, for example, a `lnd.conf` file to be managed using a
  non-private revision control system without storing the private
  username and password.

> - [Rust Bitcoin #2458][] adds support for signing [PSBTs][topic psbt]
>   for transactions that include taproot inputs.

Reviewer 2: Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions for transactions?
```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #2458][] adds support for signing [PSBTs][topic psbt]
  that include taproot inputs.
```

> {% assign day_after_posting = page.date | date: "%s" | plus: 86400 | date: "%Y-%m-%d 14:00" %}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{% assign day_after_posting = page.date | date: "%s" | plus: 86400 | date: "%Y-%m-%d 14:30" %}
```

We had yet another scheduling change as we realized the irc meeting conflict
cc: @murchandamus
